French restaurant Mirazur took home the top prize as the world’s top chefs descended upon Singapore for the biggest night of the international culinary world: The World’s 50 Best Restaurant awards.
This is the first time the main ceremony was hosted in an Asian city, after handing out awards in New York, Australia and the Basque Country of Spain since its start in 2016.
The awards were held on Tuesday night (Jun 25) at the Marina Bay Sands Theatre. Deloitte, a professional services consultancy, independently adjudicated the list compiled by a voting academy, which comprised of more than 1,000 international chefs, food writers and travelling gastronomes.
According to the organisers, Singapore has long been considered a hotspot for top-class gastronomy and drinks, with local restaurants such as Odette, Burnt Ends, Waku Ghin and Les Amis, as well as acclaimed bars and famous hawker stalls.
Odette leapfrogged into the Top 20 – to No 18 on the list – up 10 spots from its previous ranking in 2018.
“There is no doubt that this food-loving city state provides a very appropriate setting for our events in Asia,” said Charles Reed, Group Managing Director of William Reed, the media company that owns The World's 50 Best Restaurants. “There is also a discerning dining public [in Singapore who are] hungry for gastronomic adventures.”
According to William Drew, Director of Content at The World’s 50 Best Restaurants, this year’s event programme is the “most extensive ever”, with collaborative dinners, master classes and 50 Best Talks happening all over the island over a three day period.
“Food has always been important to a foodie nation like Singapore. And this love for food has led to immense diversity in our food offerings, which in turn has become a huge draw from around the world,” Singapore Tourism Board's Deputy Chief Executive Melissa Ow told CNA Lifestyle.
“Over the last few years, Singapore has grown in stature and reputation as a well-known culinary capital. It is not surprising that these days, Singapore often finds itself mentioned alongside other global culinary cities. The international F&B community now recognises Singapore's ability to support new-to-market ideas and brands.”
Ow explained that by hosting the awards in Singapore, STB is hoping to attract interest from international industry players who are “keen to explore Singapore for what she has to offer”. 
“This lays the foundation for potential business opportunities and collaborations with Singapore restaurants and bars, as well as our home-grown talent,” she said. “We hope that the awards will encourage local companies to push the boundaries in food innovation and continue to create great food experiences for consumers.”
 (Fürstenau, Switzerland)
 ( Bogota, Colombia ) *new entry
 (Shanghai, China)
 (San Francisco, USA) *new entry
 (Zwolle, Netherlands)
. 
 (Bangkok, Thailand) *new entry
 (Capetown, South  Africa)
 
 (Kruishoutem, Belgium)
 (Lisbon, Portugal) *new entry
 (Hong Kong)
 (Berlin, Germany)
 
 (Sao Paulo, Brazil) *new entry
 
 (Kobard, Slovenia)
 
 (Chicago, USA)
 
 (New York, USA)
 
 (San Francisco, USA)
 
 (Buenos Aires, Argentina) *new entry
 
 (London, UK)
 (Bilbao, Spain) *new entry
 
 (Rubano, Italy)
 (Getaria, Spain) *new entry
 (Alba, Italy)
 (New York, USA)
 (London, UK)
 (Santiago, Chile)
 (Paris, France)
(Mexico City)
(New York, USA)
 (Tokyo, Japan)
 (Stockholm, Sweden)
 (Barcelona, Spain)
 (Moscow, Russia) *new entry
 (Singapore)
(Vienna, Austria)
 (Paris, France)
 (Paris, France)
 (Larrabetzu, Spain) 
 (Moscow, Russia)
(Mexico City)
 (Tokyo, Japan)
 (Lima, Peru)
(Barcelona, Spain)
 (Paris, France)
(San Sebastian, Spain)
 (Lima, Peru)
 (Copenhagen, Denmark)
 (Bangkok, Thailand) 
 (Atxondo, Spain)
 (Copenhagen, Denmark)
 (Menton, France)
 Daniela Soto-Innes
Jessica Prealpato
 Alain Passard 
Pujol
(Mexico City)
Central (Lima, Peru)
 Gaggan (Bangkok, Thailand)
Mirazur (Menton, France)
Jose Andres
Azurmendi (Larrabetzu, Spain)
 Den (Tokyo, Japan)
 Andersen Lee