SINGAPORE: Three men were arrested for allegedly robbing a jewellery shop in Ang Mo Kio on Wednesday, police said on Friday (Aug 16).
The men - aged 27, 31 and 36 - were arrested within 36 hours following extensive investigations by various police units. The stolen jewellery, which includes necklaces, bracelets and pendants, was recovered, said police.
Police said on Wednesday the robber had jumped over the counter at Hock Cheong Jade and Jewellery and grabbed jewellery worth about S$100,000 before fleeing the scene. No weapon was used and the two shop employees were not injured in the incident.
The male suspect was wearing a black helmet, blue jacket, a pair of black pants and was carrying a black bag, police added. 
The first suspect was arrested within 15 hours at Marsiling, while the other two were subsequently arrested in Woodlands and Whampoa West.
About 120 officers from the Criminal Investigation Department, Police Intelligence Department, Ang Mo Kio Police Division, Bedok Police Division and Woodlands Police Division were involved in the investigations to establish the suspects' identity and their subsequent arrests.
The investigation is ongoing to ascertain the roles and responsibilities of the three suspects in this robbery. 
"This is a brazen robbery committed in broad daylight," said Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police Lian Ghim Hua, deputy director of the Criminal Investigation Department, who said the main robbery suspect “went to great lengths” to conceal his identity to evade detection and arrest.
“The suspects had displayed a blatant disregard of the law in Singapore. The police will spare no effort in pursuing such criminals and bring them to justice,” SAC Lian said.
The 27-year-old man, M Jegatheesh, was charged on Friday afternoon with robbery with common intention, the same charge faced by his other co-accused.
Court documents show that he faces several other charges including acquiring criminal proceeds, theft of items at Mustafa Centre and the illegal import of sugar gliders from Malaysia.
The other two suspects will be charged on Saturday.
If convicted of robbery with common intention, they will each face a jail term of up to 10 years and at least six strokes of the cane. 