SINGAPORE: Jeffrey Ong Su Aun, the lawyer who 
, was charged on Thursday (Jun 13) with forgery, while more firms have come forward on S$16 million worth of transactions purportedly involving him.
Ong, 41, the managing director of law firm JLC Advisors, was given eight additional charges of forgery for the purpose of cheating.
He had already been 
 with one count of cheating involving S$6 million.
He was accused of deceiving CCJ Investment into believing that it had entered into a loan agreement with Suite Development, inducing CCJ Investment to disburse a sum of S$6 million.
Ong appeared in court via video-link on Thursday wearing a red top and glasses. The additional eight charges are linked to the same firms CCJ Investment and Suite Development.
Deputy Public Prosecutor Nicholas Khoo told the court that on top of the additional charges, the prosecution was applying for another week's remand.
Explaining the reasons, he said: "Apart from S$33 million concerning Allied Tech, three other clients of Ong's law firm have also come forward to the Commercial Affairs Department (CAD) to inform them regarding unauthorised transactions."
This was regarding money held at Ong's firm, JLC Advisors. The total sum involved is S$16 million, according to the prosecution.
"The CAD requests time to conduct fund-tracing as well as ascertain exactly which of the transactions are unauthorised and as such we would be grateful for a further week of remand," said the prosecutor.
The judge allowed his request and set the date for the next hearing for Jun 20.
Ong has not been charged over the S$16 million nor the S$33 million, both of which allegedly involve his law firm.
His firm held an escrow account - an account where funds are held while two or more parties complete a transaction - for engineering firm Allied Technologies.
Allied Tech had filed a police report over an unauthorised payout of S$33 million from its escrow account, which Ong allegedly authorised before going missing.
Allied Tech's allegations came to light in a Singapore Exchange filing on May 23, after which the Law Society issued a notice of intervention into JLC's client accounts and took over control of funds held by JLC.
For each count of cheating or forgery for the purpose of cheating, Ong could be jailed for up to 10 years and fined.