You often hear friends and family grumbling about running out of interesting things to check out in Orchard Road. That they’ve experienced everything they possibly could there.
But maybe that’s because they didn’t know that hidden away on the fifth floor carpark of a mall lies a whisky museum that offers a tour of its vault housing 5,000 bottles of fine and rare Scotch and Japanese whiskies. Or that they could take their family on a round-the-world trip without having to leave the country just by watching a Lego multimedia show.
For those who think there’s nothing new to try, think again. Here are some options in the area that will surprise even the most jaded amongst us.
Tucked away on the fifth floor of ION Orchard, this hidden gem of a space houses one of the region's most extensive collections of fine and rare Scotch and Japanese whiskies in its vault – we're talking the Royal Lochnagar 31-year-old single cask and the Yamazaki 50-year old single malt. A tour here means you get to see first-hand the highest valued collection of whiskies in Singapore, and one of the largest in Southeast Asia.
As you walk past full collections of Macallan Lalique 50-year-olds and pedigreed bottles adorned with autographs from master distillers, manager and ambassador Damien Fourret will dispense all sorts of whisky history and trivia throughout the tour with humour and knowledge.
The hour-long vault tour designed to cater to both connoisseurs and newbies culminates with a themed flight of three whisky drams, complete with tasting notes and gourmet cold cuts. Whisky lovers won't leave The Grande Whiskey Collection museum tour disappointed.
Sign up for a one-day exclusive Whisky x Museum Night Tour (S$79), which takes place on Jul 11, from 6.30pm to 8.30pm.
Everything is awesome when it comes to Lego, especially when it’s presented as a colourful multimedia show. Created using pieces from Bricks World, a Lego-certified store in Singapore, this multi-sensory experience allows you to take an adventure around the world – from San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge to Singapore's Merlion – in the form of digital Lego wall murals, 56 floors up at ION Sky.
Perfect for Lego fans and instagrammers looking for video content, the shows run at regular intervals from 2pm to 7.45pm, and will end on Aug 31. You can get a ticket to catch the show when you spend a minimum of S$20 at the mall.
Those who do visit the show will also be able to customise their own Lego mini-figures at S$2 (usual price at S$5.50) at Bricks World as a memento of their visit.
Famous Japanese patisserie chain Henri Charpentier has just opened its newest and biggest outlet in Orchard Road, offering delicious and prettily packaged financiers, madeleines and fluffy cakes to appreciative shoppers.
But it's the thrill and taste of Henri Charpentier's crepes suzette that makes this outlet special. Not available at any other Henri Charpentier outlets in Singapore, having the expert staff make this old school elegant French dessert tableside, complete with flambe and showmanship, is enough to transport you to Paris, even if it's for just one moment.
Luxury Japanese confectionery Yoku Moku is celebrating its 50th anniversary. And to celebrate the occasion, it has launched commemorative revival tins, which will be available at its flagship store until August.
The boxes will feature the brand’s popular cigare cookies as well as two other classic crunchy cookies: The macadamia cool and orne amande. A one-box assortment retails at S$48 this month, while a two-box assortment will retail at S$78 in August.
Homegrown brand Awfully Chocolate has created a limited edition cocoa confection called A Decade Of Wonders. Inspired by ION's 10th anniversary, each bar is made with 10 symbolic ingredients, including dried raisins for good fortune, jubilant pistachios, and hazelnuts that represent an abundance of wealth and happiness, embellished with edible flowers.
The limited-edition chocolate bar (S$10) is presented in a tin with a bespoke sleeve and is only available this month.