Previously known as the Great Singapore Sale, GSS is back and rebranded as GSS: Experience Singapore.
Running from Jun 21 to Jul 28, GSS: Experience Singapore will offer an array of activities ranging from The Orchard Road Fashion Scramble – a fashion show staged at a traffic crossing – to a pop-up market and tours around Kampong Glam.
The 25-year-old campaign, which began as a month-long event in 1994, promises more discounts, deals and a specific focus on celebrating Singapore fashion, F&B and the arts.
A big date to look out for is Jul 7, which is billed as 7.7 GST Absorbed Day. Bargain hunters can look forward to a day of GST-free shopping, with participating outlets absorbing the 7 per cent tax – even on sale items.
The list of participating retailers on this day is expected to be announced on a date closer to the event.
There are also shopping spree opportunities such as TGIF!, where retailers will be promoting discounts every Friday during the event period. Shoppers will be able to access one-for-one flash deals, storewide deals up to 80 per cent off, and get complimentary gifts.
During this 38-day-long event, there are also other discounts up for grabs. For instance, those using the e-coupon app GoSpree by the Singapore Retailers Association (SRA) will get their own exclusive deals and additional savings.
Do not be surprised if you find yourself dwarfed by a towering fashion model or two at the scramble crossing on the Cairnhill Road-Orchard Road intersection. It’s all part of The Orchard Road Fashion Scramble, which kicks off GSS: Experience Singapore. 
The fashion show curated by SRA and Textile and Fashion Federation (TAFF) will take place this Friday (Jun 21) from 3pm to 5.30pm. It will feature an interactive runway for 300 dancers and models showcasing designs from both local and foreign designers, as well as award-winning creations by students from schools such as Temasek Polytechnic, Raffles Design Institute, Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts and LASALLE College of the Arts.
The Great Singapore Street Pop-Up will feature over 40 retail options across 10 days from Jun 21 to 30. The market will offer F&B delights and instagrammable art installations, and will line the shopping belt from ION Orchard to Mandarin Gallery, and also at Robinsons The Heeren and the Grange Road carpark.
Those looking for a breather from all that shopping can also enjoy 10 short films made by Temasek Polytechnic students, as well as music concerts by local performers, all screened and held at Design Orchard’s Rooftop and at the Grange Road carpark.
For design fans, there is also The Great Furniture Showcase, which will feature new limited edition designs at Robinsons The Heeren. Curated by the Singapore Furniture Industries Council, participating design studios include will local brands 11H, Creativeans and Fraction Design Studio.
SRA executive director Rose Tong told CNA Lifestyle that after 25 long years, GSS has matured.
“GSS: Experience Singapore is all about working together to revitalise Orchard Road,” she said. “And SRA is determined to spice things up to meet the demands of today’s experience-seeking shopper”.