SEOUL: North Korea fired two short-range ballistic missiles early on Wednesday (Jul 31), the South Korean military said, only days after it launched two other missiles intended to pressure South Korea and the United States to stop upcoming military drills.
The latest launches were from the Hodo peninsula on North Korea's east coast, the same area from where last week's were conducted, South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) said in a statement. It said it was monitoring in case of additional launches.
The JCS in Seoul said later the North had fired ballistic missiles that flew about 250km. The missiles, dubbed the KN-23, are designed to evade missile defence systems by being easier to hide, launch, and manoeuvre in flight, experts said.
Analysts said the range and altitude of Wednesday's flights could indicate a demonstration or test of those capabilities.
South Korean defence minister Jeong Kyeong-doo told a defence forum in Seoul that stopping a missile like the KN-23 would be difficult, although South Korea's missile defence systems would be able to detect and intercept them.
Colonel Lee Peters, a spokesman for US military forces in South Korea, said: "We are aware of reports of a missile launch from North Korea and we will continue to monitor the situation."
He did not comment when asked whether the joint South Korea-US drills, scheduled to begin next month, would continue.
Japan's defence ministry said no missiles had reached Japanese territory or its exclusive economic zone, and the launches did not threaten Japan's immediate security.
 on Jul 25, its first missile tests since leader Kim Jong Un and US President Donald Trump met on Jun 30 and agreed to revive stalled denuclearisation talks.
The series of missile tests raises the stakes for US and South Korean diplomats criss-crossing the region this week in the hope of restarting talks aimed at persuading Pyongyang to give up its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programmes.
"North Korea's actions do not help ease military tensions, nor do they help keep the momentum for talks that are under way," South Korean Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha told reporters in Seoul before leaving for a Southeast Asian security forum in Bangkok.
Kang urged North Korea to halt the missile launches.
US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and the top US North Korea negotiator were also headed to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum in the Thai capital, where Pompeo said he was holding out hope that US officials could meet North Korean counterparts.
Trump and Pompeo both played down last week's launches and Pompeo has continued to express hope for a diplomatic way forward with North Korea.
Since Trump and Kim's Jun 30 meeting in the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) between the two Koreas, Pyongyang has accused Washington of breaking a promise by planning to hold joint military exercises with South Korea next month and warned that these could derail any dialogue.
Later on Wednesday, state news agency KCNA repeated calls for the United States and South Korea to end their "hostile" joint drills, but did not mention the missile launches.
North Korea has also warned of a possible end to its freeze on nuclear and long-range missile tests in place since 2017, which Trump has repeatedly upheld as evidence of the success of his engagement with Kim.
A top South Korean official said last month the drills would go ahead as planned but would largely involve computer simulations and not troops in the field.
A summit between Trump and Kim in Vietnam in February collapsed after they failed to reconcile differences between Washington's demands for Pyongyang's complete denuclearisation and North Korean demands for sanctions relief.
Trump says he has a good relationship with Kim and Pompeo said on Monday he hoped working-level talks could occur soon.
Pompeo told reporters travelling with him to Asia on Tuesday he did not know when this would happen but hoped US Special Representative for North Korea Stephen Biegun and his new counterpart could meet soon.
North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho cancelled a planned visit to the ASEAN forum in Bangkok but Pompeo said the Americans were still open to a meeting.
Harry Kazianis, of Washington's Center for the National Interest think tank, said the latest launches were a clear attempt by North Korea to put pressure on Washington.
Other analysts have said North Korea will be emboldened to press more aggressively for US concessions by Trump's apparent eagerness to hold up his engagement with Pyongyang as a foreign policy success ahead of his 2020 re-election bid.