WASHINGTON: North Korea carried out a new projectile launch early on Friday (Aug 2), South Korea news agency Yonhap and two US officials said.
Unidentified short-range projectiles were fired off separately from North Korea's eastern coast, South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff told Yonhap. They were fired in the pre-dawn hours from Yonghung, South Hamgyong Province, into the East Sea.
Two US officials said that initial information indicated it was similar to previous tests carried out by Pyongyang. This was the third round of missile launches in a week.
The nuclear-armed North described an earlier missile launch as a warning to the South over planned joint military drills with the United States.
One of the US officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the launch did not pose a threat to North America.
North Korea is banned from ballistic missile launches under UN Security Council resolutions.
There was no immediate comment from Pyongyang on the latest launch.
 early on Wednesday, only days after it launched two similar missiles on Jul 25.
US President Trump 
 when asked about them at the White House just after news broke about the latest projectile launch. He told reporters he was not worried that they were short-range and "very standard".
Earlier on Thursday and before the latest launch, a senior US official said North Korea's latest missile launches 
 a pledge that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un made to Trump not to test long-range missiles and nuclear weapons.
The two leaders agreed at a Jun 30 meeting to revive stalled denuclearisation talks, but efforts to resume the negotiations remain in doubt. Diplomats have criss-crossed the region this week in the hope of restarting the talks.
The North Korea launches have appeared intended to put pressure on South Korea and the United States to stop planned military exercises and offer other concessions, analysts said.
A summit between Trump and Kim in Vietnam in February collapsed after the two sides failed to reconcile differences between US demands for North Korea's complete denuclearisation and North Korean demands for sanctions relief.