LONDON: A man has been taken to hospital after suffering knife injuries near the Home Office in Westminster, London on Thursday (Aug 15).
Emergency services were called to Marsham Street in Westminster at around 1pm local time on Thursday after reports of a man with a knife.
Police officers turned up to find a man with knife injuries, with paramedics from the London Ambulance Service treating him at the scene before taking him to hospital. 
The police initially said the injuries were "life-threatening", but later updated that the victim's life was no longer in danger.
"One man has been arrested on suspicion of (causing) grievous bodily harm and taken to a police station," the force added in a statement.
"Enquiries are ongoing into the exact circumstances of the incident." 
"We treated a man at the scene and took him to a major trauma centre," London Ambulance Service said in a statement.
A police spokeswoman said it was too early to say whether the incident was linked to the Home Office but there was no suggestion it was terrorism-related.
British police officers do not routinely carry arms but armed officers were seen outside the ministry shortly after the attack.
Security cordon tape was put up around the entrance of the ministry. Security guards and police officers were stood outside.
Two police cars were stationed outside with several others parked nearby.
Home Secretary Priti Patel tweeted: "All my thoughts are with the victim and their family following horrific unprovoked knife attack."
Figures out last month revealed that knife crime in England and Wales had soared to a record high of 43,516 offences in the year ending March 2019.
The figures were up 8 per cent year-on-year, and up 80 per cent from March 2014 when there were 23,945 offences.
For every 100,000 people in London, there were 169 knife offences in 2018-19 - way ahead of the figures for the rest of England.
New Prime Minister Boris Johnson reiterated his commitment to tackling the "scourge" of knife crime as he took questions from the public live on Facebook on Wednesday.