JERUSALEM/GAZA: Israeli forces opened fire at a group of Palestinian gunmen as they tried to cross the Gaza border, the military said on Sunday (Aug 18) and Palestinian health officials said three of the men were killed.
Israel's tank and helicopter fire came after Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip fired three rockets at Israel late Saturday, the military said, the second such attack in 24 hours.
"A short while ago, IDF (Israel Defence Forces) troops spotted a number of armed suspects adjacent to the security fence in the northern Gaza Strip. An IDF attack helicopter and a tank fired towards them," the military said in a statement.
Two rockets were intercepted by Israel's air defence systems, it said, without specifying what happened to the third.
Police reported no casualties in Israel, but said a rocket fragment fell on a house in the southern Israeli town of Sderot.
Israeli medics said they had treated six people, including two with minor injuries sustained while running to bomb shelters and four others with panic attacks.
Hours later, Israel's army said "troops spotted a number of armed suspects adjacent to the security fence in the northern Gaza Strip".
It added that an "attack helicopter and a tank fired towards them".
Palestinian medics said they retrieved three bodies from the site and Gaza hospital officials said a fourth man was injured.
It identified those killed as Mahmoud al-Walayda, 24, Mohammed Abu Namus, 27, and Mohammed Samir al-Taramsi, 26.
Hamas in a statement called their deaths "another crime by the Israeli occupation to be added to its grim toll against the Palestinian people's rights, land and holy sites."
Palestinian militant group Islamic Jihad issued a statement mourning their deaths, but did not claim them as members.
"We affirm the right of our people to resist and confront all forms of Zionist aggression," it said.
A series of incidents along the Gaza border has tested a fragile truce between Hamas and Israel in recent days.
On Friday night, a rocket was fired from Gaza into Israel and was intercepted by missile defence systems.
Israel said in response it carried out strikes on two Hamas "underground targets" in the northern and central Gaza Strip, without providing further details.
A Gaza security source reported three Israeli strikes on a Hamas observation post, an unidentified target near Gaza City and one that hit open ground in the central part of the enclave.
Gaza is ruled by the Islamist group Hamas, which has fought three wars with Israel over the past decade. Israel pulled its troops and settlers from the territory in 2005 but keeps the enclave under a blockade, citing security concerns. Tensions along the border are high with frequent fatalities.